---
title:  "Release Notes"
date: '2019-05-17'
categories:
  - news
  - rn
slug: 2019-05-17-rn
---

Data updates up to Apr 2019.

The following changes have been delivered in this release:

1. **Update**: Data download files updated up to **Apr 2019** (when applicable).
1. **News**: [Comparison of ATFM practices and performance in the U.S. and Europe (2015-2018)][tmi18]<br> 
Traditionally, regional Air Traffic Management benchmarking focuses on comparing delay statistics to foster a better understanding of the different practices in the different regional systems. 
Based on a joint typology of Traffic Management Initiatives (TMIs), the award winning paper from the 2019 ICNS conference goes one step further as it compares operational practices, trends, and underlying causes in the application of TMIs in both systems between 2015 and 2018.
1. **News**: [Composite Risk Index Methodology][cri]<br> 
All safety programmes desire accurate safety risk quantification in order to provide a meaningful expression of risk. As there are typically multiple safety risks associated with a system or event, the quantification of the total safety risk is a major challenge.
One possible way to define the total safety risk is the concept of a Composite Risk Index (CRI) which aims at measuring the performance of ATM system as a whole and/or its individual entities (service providers or Member States). The proposed CRI methodology presents a cumulative risk value, calculated by aggregating all reported, assessed and severity classified safety-related incidents which also takes the human perception of the equivalent risk into account.

<!--more-->

[cri]: /methodology/cri-pi/ "Composite Risk Index Methodology"
[tmi18]: http://ansperformance.eu/library/ICNS2019_pre_print_comparison_of_ATFM_practices_US_EUR_2015_2018.pdf "Comparison of ATFM practices and performance in the U.S. and Europe (2015-2018)"